Today on Forbes, you're not imagining
it. AI is already taking tech jobs.
Between meetings in April, Misha
Kaufman, CEO of the freelance
marketplace Fiverr, fired off a memo to
his 1200 employees that didn't mince
words, writing, quote, "AI is coming for
your jobs. Heck, it's coming for my job,
too. This is a wakeup call."
The memo detailed Kaufman's thesis for
AI, that it would elevate everyone's
abilities. Easy tasks would become
no-brainers. Hard tasks would become
easy. Impossible tasks would become
merely hard, he posited. And because AI
tools are free to use, no one has an
advantage. In the shuffle, people who
didn't adapt would be quote doomed.
Kaufman tells Forbes now, quote, I hear
the conversation around the office. I
hear developers ask each other, "Guys,
are we going to have a job in 2 years? I
felt like this needed validation from me
that they aren't imagining stuff.
Already younger and more inexperienced
programmers are seeing a drop in
employment rate. Ruy Chen, a post-doal
fellow at the Digital Economy Lab of
Stanford's Institute for Human- Centered
AI said that the total number of
employed entry-level developers from
ages 18 to 25 has dropped quote slightly
since 2022 after the launch of Chat GPT.
It isn't just lack of experience that
could make getting a job extremely
difficult going forward. Chen notes too
that the market may be tougher for those
who are just average at their jobs. In
the age of AI, only exceptional
employees have an edge.
Chen and her colleagues studied
large-scale payroll data in the US
shared by the HR company ADP to examine
generative AI's impact on the workforce.
The employment rate decline for
entry-level developers is small but a
significant development in the field of
engineering in the tech industry. An
occupation that has seemed synonymous
with wealth and exorbitant salaries for
more than a quarter century. Now
suddenly after years of rhetoric about
how AI will augment workers rather than
replace them. Many tech CEOs have become
more direct about the toll of AI.
Anthropic CEO Dario Amade has said AI
could wipe out half of all entry-level
white collar jobs and spike unemployment
up to 20% within the next 5 years.
Amazon CEO Andy Jasse said last month
that AI will quote reduce our total
corporate workforce over the next few
years as the company begins to quote
need fewer people doing some of the jobs
that are being done today and more
people doing other types of jobs.
Earlier this year, Shopify CEO Toby
Lutka also posted a memo that he sent
his team saying that budget for new
hires would only be granted for jobs
that can't be automated by AI.
Tech companies have also started cutting
jobs or freezing hiring explicitly due
to AI and automation. At Stalwart IBM,
hundreds of human resources employees
were replaced by AI in May, part of
broader job cuts that terminated 8,000
employees. Also in May, Luis van an CEO
of the language learning app Dolingo
said the company would stop using
contractors for work that could be done
by AI.
Sebastian Simeowski, CEO of buy now pay
later firm Clara said in May that the
company had slashed its workforce 40%.
In part due to investments in AI,
Microsoft made its own waves earlier
this month when it laid off 9,000
employees or about 4% of its workforce.
The company didn't explicitly site AI as
a reason for the downsizing, but it has
broadly increased its spending in AI and
touted the savings it had racked up from
using the tech. CEO Satya Nadella said
in April that as much as 30% of code at
the company is being written by AI. One
laid-off Microsoft employee told Forbes,
quote, "This is what happens when a
company is rearranging priorities."
It's difficult to pinpoint the exact
motivation behind job cuts at any given
company. The overall economic
environment could also be a factor,
marked by uncertainties heightened by
President Donald Trump's erratic tariff
plans. Many companies also became
bloated during the pandemic and recent
layoffs could still be trying to correct
for overhiring.
For full coverage, check out Richard
Neva's piece on Forbes.com.
This is Kieran Meadows from Forbes.
Thanks for tuning in.